change(definitions): adds top-level 'definitions' section (#325)
homieiot/convention: convention.md

Version: **<!--VERSION-->x.x.x<!--VERSION-->**
Date: **<!--DATE-->01. Jan 2000<!--DATE-->**

## Introduction

​The Homie convention is an open standard framework designed to facilitate the
communication and integration of Internet of Things (IoT) devices using the
[MQTT protocol](https://mqtt.org).

In particular, the Homie convention defines a consistent topic structure and
messaging format that enables devices to represent themselves, their data and
their supported controls/commands in a uniform manner, enabling automatic
discovery.

> ## Definitions

Reviewer: Wouldn't "roles" be a better description? Because there should be way more entries here if we call it definitions.

Author: Done in https://github.com/homieiot/convention/pull/325/commits/c1506979acf85b6c45845cbbd74fb7336e4e0c9b .

- **Device**: a physical appliance or logical entity, such as a car, a coffee
  machine or a protocol bridge, whose representation is published to an MQTT
  broker.
- **Controller**: a software solution that discovers and interacts with
  *devices* through one or more MQTT brokers.

Note that, for brevity and simplicity, the word &quot;device&quot; is often used
to denote the combination of an appliance, the computer managing the appliance's

> MQTT representation and the representation itself.

Reviewer: if you change it to "roles" then this comment can go. And I think we should replace it with a comment that any particular implementation can have either one, or both roles at the same time.

Author: > And I think we should replace it with a comment that any particular implementation can have either one, or both roles at the same time.

Done in https://github.com/homieiot/convention/commit/c1506979acf85b6c45845cbbd74fb7336e4e0c9b

> if you change it to "roles" then this comment can go

I still feel there are usages of the word "device" that do benefit from this comment. For example, "device ID" isn't (necessarily) an attribute of the _implementation_ playing the _device_ role but, rather, of the _appliance_ being represented.

Generally, I feel that the overloading of the word "device" that @dcj [mentioned](https://github.com/homieiot/convention/pull/325#issuecomment-2783370079) still remains even after changing _definitions_ into _roles_ (which, by the way, is a change I agree with). The goal of this comment is to explicitly embrace this overload to prevent further (and more invasive) changes to the spec (at least for V5).

That said, I'm not married to this comment and I'm happy to remove it if maintainers disagree with the above. I'll leave this conversation up to you @Tieske to resolve once this will have been addressed to your satisfaction.

## MQTT Restrictions

Homie communicates through [MQTT](http://mqtt.org) and is hence based on the basic principles of MQTT topic publication and subscription.

Note that there can be more than one Controller interacting with Devices afferent to the same broker.

> 

Reviewer: Do we need this? this is implicit in the fact that MQTT is the underlying protocol used.

Author: Done in https://github.com/homieiot/convention/pull/325/commits/01c93f96ef5ba37f5e42af47e57c45f4ec2ea3ef .

Version: **<!--VERSION-->x.x.x<!--VERSION-->**
Date: **<!--DATE-->01. Jan 2000<!--DATE-->**

## Introduction

​The Homie convention is an open standard framework designed to facilitate the
communication and integration of Internet of Things (IoT) devices using the
[MQTT protocol](https://mqtt.org).

In particular, the Homie convention defines a consistent topic structure and
messaging format that enables devices to represent themselves, their data and
their supported controls/commands in a uniform manner, enabling automatic
discovery.

## Roles

When interacting through a shared MQTT broker, implementations of the Homie
convention can take on one or both of the following roles simultaneously:

- **Device**: an implementation that publishes the representation of a physical
  appliance or logical entity, such as a car, a coffee machine or a protocol
  bridge, to an MQTT broker.

> - **Controller**: an implementation that discovers and interacts with *devices*
>   through one or more MQTT brokers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Controller**: an implementation that discovers and interacts with *devices*
  over MQTT. For example a mobile app, or an if-this-then-that rules engine.
```
